README.MD, before:

# 🚀 HTML Boilerplate Template

A modern, professional HTML5 starter template packed with best practices for SEO, accessibility, mobile responsiveness, and rich social media sharing. 

Ideal for new websites, portfolios, landing pages, educational projects, or frontend development starters.

## ✅ Features

- Valid and semantic HTML5 structure
- SEO-optimized meta tags
- Open Graph (OG) + Twitter Cards for social sharing
- JSON-LD structured data (Schema.org)
- Accessibility-friendly (skip links, semantic roles, ARIA labels)
- Mobile theming + favicons
- Clear code comments for learning & customization

---

---
# 🧠 script.js
Educational JavaScript Boilerplate

This project includes a modular and beginner-friendly script.js boilerplate to help kickstart your JavaScript interactivity layer.

## ✅ Features:

- DOMContentLoaded wrapper to ensure scripts run only after the DOM is fully loaded

- Utility functions ($ and $all) for simplified element selection

- Accessible mobile menu toggle example (#menu-button & #main-nav)

- Dark mode toggle example (#toggle-theme)

- Basic error handling pattern with try/catch

- Commented for learning and customization

- // Example: Toggle dark mode
   const themeBtn = $("#toggle-theme");
   if (themeBtn) {
   themeBtn.addEventListener("click", () => {
   document.body.classList.toggle("dark");
   });
   }
Use this as a foundation and extend it with your own modules, logic, or components.


---

## 📂 Files Included

| File           | Purpose                                               |
|----------------|--------------------------------------------------------|
| `index.html`   | Main HTML document with full boilerplate               |
| `style.css`    | Placeholder stylesheet                                 |
| `script.js`    | JavaScript stub with DOMContentLoaded listener         |
| `LICENSE.txt`  | License info (Creative Commons Attribution 4.0)        |
| `README.md`    | This file - documentation and usage guide              |

---

## ⚙️ How to Use

1. **Clone the repo**
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/p2pl/html-boilerplate.git
   ```

2. **Customize your content**
   - Update `<title>`, meta descriptions, images, URLs
   - Replace `style.css` and `script.js` with your own files
   - Add your content inside the `<main>` section

3. **Deploy**
   - Use GitHub Pages, Netlify, Vercel, or any web host to publish your site

4. **Preview social cards**
   - [Open Graph Debugger (Facebook)](https://developers.facebook.com/tools/debug/)
   - [Twitter Card Validator](https://cards-dev.twitter.com/validator)

---

## 🌐 Live Preview *(optional)*

If deployed using GitHub Pages, you can link your live demo here:
```
https://p2pl.github.io/html-boilerplate/
```

---

## 🧾 License & Attribution

> HTML Boilerplate Template by **Peter R. (p2)**  
> Licensed under [Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 (CC BY 4.0)](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/)  
> You may use, share, or adapt this template freely — **but attribution is required**.  
> Please credit:
> “Based on a boilerplate by Peter R. (p2) – https://github.com/p2pl”

---

## 🙋‍♂️ Contributing

Pull requests and suggestions are welcome!
Feel free to open an issue or discussion if you have feedback, bugs, or ideas.

---

## ⭐️ Show Your Support

If this boilerplate helped you, consider:
- Giving it a ⭐️ on GitHub
- Sharing it with other developers or learners
- Following [@p2pl](https://github.com/p2pl) for more open-source work

---

Thanks for visiting!

---

Commit message:

Many updates
Designing user interface for the index.html

created empty explained html boilerplate with commented section, as a separate file to keep as fresh template that is ready to go for a new project.
updated css for the index user interface as well.

README.MD, after:

# 🚀 HTML Boilerplate Template

A modern and professional HTML5 boilerplate designed to follow current best practices in SEO, accessibility, responsive design, and social media integration.

This template serves as an ideal foundation for new websites, personal portfolios, landing pages, educational projects, or front-end development prototypes.

## ✅ Features

- Valid and semantic HTML5 structure
- SEO-optimized meta tags
- Open Graph (OG) + Twitter Cards for social sharing
- JSON-LD structured data (Schema.org)
- Accessibility-friendly (skip links, semantic roles, ARIA labels)
- Mobile theming + favicons
- Clear code comments for learning & customization

---

---
# 🧠 script.js
Educational JavaScript Boilerplate

This project includes a modular and beginner-friendly script.js boilerplate to help kickstart your JavaScript interactivity layer.

## ✅ Features:

- DOMContentLoaded wrapper to ensure scripts run only after the DOM is fully loaded

- Utility functions ($ and $all) for simplified element selection

- Accessible mobile menu toggle example (#menu-button & #main-nav)

- Dark mode toggle example (#toggle-theme)

- Basic error handling pattern with try/catch

- Commented for learning and customization

- // Example: Toggle dark mode
   const themeBtn = $("#toggle-theme");
   if (themeBtn) {
   themeBtn.addEventListener("click", () => {
   document.body.classList.toggle("dark");
   });
   }
Use this as a foundation and extend it with your own modules, logic, or components.


---

## 📂 Files Included

| File           | Purpose                                               |
|----------------|--------------------------------------------------------|
| `index.html`   | Main HTML document with full boilerplate               |
| `style.css`    | Placeholder stylesheet                                 |
| `script.js`    | JavaScript stub with DOMContentLoaded listener         |
| `LICENSE.txt`  | License info (Creative Commons Attribution 4.0)        |
| `README.md`    | This file - documentation and usage guide              |

---

## ⚙️ How to Use

1. **Clone the repo**
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/p2pl/html-boilerplate.git
   ```

2. **Customize your content**
   - Update `<title>`, meta descriptions, images, URLs
   - Replace `style.css` and `script.js` with your own files
   - Add your content inside the `<main>` section

3. **Deploy**
   - Use GitHub Pages, Netlify, Vercel, or any web host to publish your site

4. **Preview social cards**
   - [Open Graph Debugger (Facebook)](https://developers.facebook.com/tools/debug/)
   - [Twitter Card Validator](https://cards-dev.twitter.com/validator)

---

## 🌐 Live Preview *(optional)*

If deployed using GitHub Pages, you can link your live demo here:
```
https://p2pl.github.io/html-boilerplate/
```

---

## 🧾 License & Attribution

> HTML Boilerplate Template by **Peter R. (p2)**  
> Licensed under [Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 (CC BY 4.0)](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/)  
> You may use, share, or adapt this template freely — **but attribution is required**.  
> Please credit:
> “Based on a boilerplate by Peter R. (p2) – https://github.com/p2pl”

---

## 🙋‍♂️ Contributing

Pull requests and suggestions are welcome!
Feel free to open an issue or discussion if you have feedback, bugs, or ideas.

---

## ⭐️ Show Your Support

If this boilerplate helped you, consider:
- Giving it a ⭐️ on GitHub
- Sharing it with other developers or learners
- Following [@p2pl](https://github.com/p2pl) for more open-source work

---

Thanks for visiting!

---
